New blog example to use EFS CSI volumes with EKS workloads (#1289)
pulumi/docs: content/blog/persisting-kubernetes-workloads-with-amazon-efscsi-volumes-using-pulumi-sdks/index.md

---

> title: "Persisting Kubernetes workloads with Amazon EFS CSI volumes using Pulumi open source sdks"

Reviewer: Nit: SDK is an acronym, so it should be capitalized as "SDKs".

Author: Done.

authors: ["nishi-davidson"]
tags: ["AWS", "EKS", "Kubernetes"]
date: "2019-08-06"

meta_image: "RELATIVE_TO_PAGE/featured-img-efs-csi-driver.png"
---

The Amazon Elastic File System Container Storage Interface (CSI) Driver implements the [CSI specification](https://github.com/container-storage-interface/spec/blob/master/spec.md) for container orchestrators to manage the lifecycle of Amazon EFS filesystems. The CSI specification defines an interface along with the minimum operational and packaging recommendations for a storage provider to implement a CSI compatible plugin. The interface declares the RPCs that a plugin must expose. The CSI drivers are the right mechanism to work with, when using a cloud storage component with Kubernetes workloads. Amazon Elastic File System (Amazon EFS) provides parallel shared access through a standard file system interface to Amazon EC2 instances and Linux-based workloads without disrupting your applications. EFS is a regional service storing data across multiple Availability Zones (AZs) for high availability and durability. 

> The [AWS EFS CSI Driver](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/aws-efs-csi-driver) is a Kubernetes[SIG-AWS](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/tree/master/sig-aws) subproject. The AWS EFS CSI Driver triggers the creation of out-of-tree CSI volume plugins in any Kubernetes cluster. Thereafter Kubernetes storage classes, persistent volumes and claims can be used by a Kubernetes workload to access the EFS CSI volume plugin as before.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The [AWS EFS CSI Driver](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/aws-efs-csi-driver) is a Kubernetes [SIG-AWS](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/tree/master/sig-aws) subproject. The AWS EFS CSI Driver triggers the creation of out-of-tree CSI volume plugins in any Kubernetes cluster. Thereafter Kubernetes storage classes, persistent volumes and claims can be used by a Kubernetes workload to access the EFS CSI volume plugin as before.
```

Author: absorbed this suggestion.

In this blog, we will work through an example that shows how to use AWS EFS CSI storage components with Kubernetes workloads running on Amazon EKS worker nodes using Pulumi libraries ([EKS](https://github.com/pulumi/pulumi-eks), [AWS](https://github.com/pulumi/pulumi-aws), and [AWSX] (https://github.com/pulumi/pulumi-awsx/tree/master/nodejs/awsx)).

> ## Step 1: Initialize Pulumi project and stack in your organization:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Step 1: Initialize Pulumi Project and Stack for your Organization
```

Author: absorbed this suggestion.

> [Install pulumi CLI](https://pulumi.io/quickstart/install.html?__hstc=194006706.92c420b2463a950f50b989da5e9a9de1.1559843842775.1560878104539.1560906741042.31&__hssc=194006706.2.1560906741042&__hsfp=3773980820) and set up your [AWS credentials](https://pulumi.io/quickstart/aws/setup.html?__hstc=194006706.92c420b2463a950f50b989da5e9a9de1.1559843842775.1560878104539.1560906741042.31&__hssc=194006706.2.1560906741042&__hsfp=3773980820). Initialize a new [Pulumi project](https://pulumi.io/reference/project.html?__hstc=194006706.92c420b2463a950f50b989da5e9a9de1.1559843842775.1560878104539.1560906741042.31&__hssc=194006706.2.1560906741042&__hsfp=3773980820) from available templates. We use `aws-typescript` template here to install all library dependencies.

Reviewer: We should no longer link to pulumi.io. Instead, replace this with: `[Install pulumi CLI]({{< ref "/docs/quickstart" >}})`. Similarly, the AWS credentials and Pulumi project references should also use "Hugo shortcodes" that link to `/docs/quickstart/aws` or `docs/reference/project`.

Reviewer 3: `pulumi CLI` -> `Pulumi CLI`

Author: absorbed both changes.

Author: absorbed these comments.

We will work with two Pulumi stacks in this example, one for the Amazon EKS cluster and AWS EFS CSI components caled k8sinfra. The other for the application and its storage class, persistent volume and persistent volume claim called app. The AWS EFS CSI (Container Storage Interface) is based on the initial [AWS EFS CSI Driver](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/aws-efs-csi-driver/) work done by Kubernetes [SIG-AWS](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/tree/master/sig-aws).

```bash

> $ brew install pulumi # download pulumi CLI

Reviewer 3: Might want to make it explicit that these example steps are running on OS X. Also, I think we want `the Pulumi CLI` here as well.

Author: added both suggestions.

$ mkdir k8sinfra && cd k8sinfra

$ pulumi new aws-typescript

$ npm install --save @pulumi/kubernetes @pulumi/eks

$ ls -la
drwxr-xr-x   10 nishidavidson  staff    320 Jun 18 18:22 .
drwxr-xr-x+ 102 nishidavidson  staff   3264 Jun 18 18:13 ..
-rw-------    1 nishidavidson  staff     21 Jun 18 18:22 .gitignore
-rw-r--r--    1 nishidavidson  staff     32 Jun 18 18:22 Pulumi.dev.yaml
-rw-------    1 nishidavidson  staff     91 Jun 18 18:22 Pulumi.yaml
-rw-------    1 nishidavidson  staff    273 Jun 18 18:22 index.ts
drwxr-xr-x   95 nishidavidson  staff   3040 Jun 18 18:22 node_modules
-rw-r--r--    1 nishidavidson  staff  50650 Jun 18 18:22 package-lock.json
-rw-------    1 nishidavidson  staff    228 Jun 18 18:22 package.json
-rw-------    1 nishidavidson  staff    522 Jun 18 18:22 tsconfig.json

> 

Reviewer: Nit: This blank line isn't needed, right?

Author: Done

```

> ## Step 2: Create an EKS cluster, an EFS endpoint and mount targets in the public subnets of the EKS cluster:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Step 2: Create an EKS Cluster, EFS Endpoint and Mount Targets
```

Author: absorbed this suggestion and made additional edit.

> The code below can be pasted in `index.ts` to create a default EKS cluster with two public subnets in the new VPC. We then declare EFS endpoint and mount the same to both subnets so the the EKS worker nodes can access the filesystem. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The code below first declares an EKS cluster attached to two public subnets in a new VPC. We then declare EFS endpoint and mount the same to both subnets so the the EKS worker nodes can access the filesystem. This code should be pasted into `index.ts`.
```

Author: Done.

Author: Added suggestion.

```typescript
import * as aws from "@pulumi/aws";
import * as awsx from "@pulumi/awsx";
import * as eks from "@pulumi/eks";
import * as k8s from "@pulumi/kubernetes";

//* STEP 1: Create an EKS cluster, an EFS endpoint and mount the EFS endpoint in each public subnet of the EKS cluster

// Create an EKS Cluster
const vpc = new awsx.Network("vpc", { usePrivateSubnets: false });
export const cluster = new eks.Cluster("eks-cluster", {
  vpcId             : vpc.vpcId,
  subnetIds         : vpc.publicSubnetIds,
  instanceType      : "t2.medium",
  version           : "1.12",
  nodeRootVolumeSize: 200,
  desiredCapacity   : 2,
  maxSize           : 3,
  minSize           : 2,
  deployDashboard   : true,
  vpcCniOptions     : {
    warmIpTarget    : 4,
  },
});

> const nodesg = cluster.nodeSecurityGroup;

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
const nodeSecurityGroup = cluster.nodeSecurityGroup;
```

Author: added suggestion.

> export const nodesubnetId = cluster.core.subnetIds;

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
export const nodeSubnetIds = cluster.core.subnetIds;
```

Author: added suggestion.

export const clusterName = cluster.eksCluster.name;
export const kubeconfig = cluster.kubeconfig.apply(JSON.stringify);

// Create an EFS endpoint 
export const efsFilesystem = new aws.efs.FileSystem("MyEFS", {
  tags: { Name: "myEFS" },
});

export const efsFilesystemId = efsFilesystem.id;

// Create a mounttarget in each of the EKS cluster VPC's AZs so that EC2 instances across the VPC can access the filesystem
new aws.efs.MountTarget("MyEFS-MountTarget1", {
  fileSystemId: efsFilesystemId,
  securityGroups: [ nodesg.id ],
  subnetId: nodesubnetId[0],
});

new aws.efs.MountTarget("MyEFS-MountTarget2", {
  fileSystemId: efsFilesystemId,
  securityGroups: [ nodesg.id ],
  subnetId: nodesubnetId[1],
});

```

> ## Step 3: Create the CSI driver node and controller components

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Step 3: Create the CSI Driver Node and Controller Components
```

Author: absorbed this suggestion.

> Currently, only static provisioning for AWS EFS CSI drivers is supported by SIG-AWS. Implies, Amazon EFS filesystem needs to be created manually first. After that it can be mounted inside a container as a volume using the driver. The code below will allow you to deploy allow the CSI Driver components on the Amazon EKS cluster.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Currently, only static provisioning for AWS EFS CSI drivers is supported by SIG-AWS, which implies the Amazon EFS filesystem needs to be created manually first.  After creation, it can be mounted inside a container as a volume using the driver. The code below will allow you to deploy allow the CSI Driver components on the Amazon EKS cluster.
```

Author: absorbed this suggestion and made an additional edit.

        containers: [
          {
              name: "efs-plugin",
              image: "amazon/aws-efs-csi-driver:latest",
              imagePullPolicy: "Always",
              args: [ "--endpoint=$(CSI_ENDPOINT)", "--logtostderr", "--v=5" ],
              env: [
                { name: "CSI_ENDPOINT", value: "unix:///var/lib/csi/sockets/pluginproxy/csi.sock" }
              ],
              volumeMounts: [
                { name: "socket-dir", mountPath: "/var/lib/csi/sockets/pluginproxy/"},
              ],
          },
          {
              name: "csi-attacher",
              image: "quay.io/k8scsi/csi-attacher:v0.4.2",
              imagePullPolicy: "Always",
              args: [ "--csi-address=$(ADDRESS)", "--v=5" ],
              env: [
                { name: "ADDRESS", value: "/var/lib/csi/sockets/pluginproxy/csi.sock" },
              ],
              volumeMounts: [
                { name: "socket-dir", mountPath: "/var/lib/csi/sockets/pluginproxy/"},
              ],
          },
        ],
        volumes: [ 
          { name: "socket-dir", emptyDir: { } },
        ],
      },
    },
  }, 
}, { provider: cluster.provider });

> 

Reviewer: Nit: This blank line isn't needed, right? And every other code block in the file.

Author: done.

    }
  }
  }, { provider: k8sProvider });
  
  const pvcEFS = new k8s.core.v1.PersistentVolumeClaim("efs-claim", {
  metadata: { name: "efs-claim" },
  spec: { 
    accessModes: [ "ReadWriteOnce" ],
    storageClassName: "efs-sc",
    resources: { requests: { storage: "5Gi" } }
  }
  }, { provider: k8sProvider });

//* STEP 6: Mount the endpoint to pod in EKS cluster

export const newPod = new k8s.core.v1.Pod("efs-app", {
  metadata: { name: "efs-app" },
  spec: {
    containers: [{ 
      name: "app" , 
      image: "centos", 
      command: ["/bin/sh"],
      args: ["-c", "while true; do echo $(date -u) >> /data/out.txt; sleep 5; done"],
      volumeMounts: [{ 
        name: "persistent-storage", 
        mountPath: "/data",
      }],
    }],
    volumes: [{
      name: "persistent-storage",
      persistentVolumeClaim: { claimName: "efs-claim" }
    }],
  }
}, { provider: k8sProvider, dependsOn: pvcEFS });

```

Verify the pod is running and that data is being written into the EFS filesystem using:

```bash
$ kubectl exec -ti efs-app -- tail -f /data/out.txt
Mon Jul 8 06:12:00 UTC 2019
Mon Jul 8 06:12:05 UTC 2019
Mon Jul 8 06:12:10 UTC 2019
Mon Jul 8 06:12:15 UTC 2019

```

> This brings us to the end of our solution with Pulumi and AWS EFS on Amazon EKS. For more examples, refer to Pulumi's open source repository [here](https://github.com/pulumi/examples). Refer to other Kubernetes blogs [here](https://blog.pulumi.com/author/nishi-davidson).

Reviewer: The link "here" isn't especially useful for SEO purposes, also, rather than using direct-URLs prefer to use "shortcodes". e.g.

```
Refer to other [Kubernetes articles](https://www.pulumi.com/tags/kubernetes)
```

Author: done.
